# Introduction and Background 
Individuals with autism and anxieties can find new experiences and changes in routine distressing, especially when it involves high stress, social, or sensory components. One of the main cognitive-behavioral interventions to minimize distress at new events or services includes the creation of a social story. Popularized by Carol Gray, social stories are written or illustrated first-person narratives that inform the reader of the future events, expectations, rules, and potential triggers of the experience described by the story (Gray nd). When used correctly, these stories can help individuals know what to expect and what is expected of them. However, the usefulness is limited as circumstances are often hyperspecific and thus it is hard to find applicable stories. Additionally, the primary audience, of children with autism, often responds better to visual learning strategies than language-based ones (Rao & Gagie 2006). This limits the usefulness of both written and spoken social stories, especially without clear illustrations. It is because of these limitations that I want to increase access to video and virtual reality social stories. 
<br><br>The expansion of social therapies and other similar therapies, such as exposure therapy, to video and VR mediums, has been measured mostly in the context of job interview prep and phobia treatments. However, these mediums have both been found to be useful in better immersing and preparing individuals with autism due to increased visual and audio components (Wilson 2013 and Briody & McGarry 2005). Specifically, with social stories, these new mediums would be invaluable in medical contexts and other procedures that are hard to describe the sensory components, such as machine noises that may be jarring, and involve specific actions on the part of the participant (Langone 2005). This transition to simulated videos has been started by The Social Express by Marc Zimmerman, in the form of a web application loaded with various scenarios to view (Zimmerman 2019). However, with only one company making them and it not being accessible to android users, more is needed to expand the accessibility. 
<br><br>To increase accessibility, I came up with the solution of creating a sharing platform for families, individuals, and companies to post social stories about their operations, a practice starting to be common in the entertainment industry (Delfont Mackintosh Theaters 2018). A consolidated location to access and publish social stories for the community would allow for higher awareness and access. It would also empower more people to make their work more accessible by creating social stories by publishing a guide to creating them that takes into account the burden a poorly constructed social story can put on the user to change themselves to conform (Vance 2020). A centralized location for uploading with guidelines and instructions would fill the gap in access while promoting the more efficient mediums to better help a large audience interact comfortably with the world around them.
# Project Description:
This project combines my research and creative mini-projects to create a video and VR social story-sharing platform. My stakeholders include creators of social stories (families, friends, therapists, etc) and the actual users of social stories (individuals with autism or social anxiety). Deliverables would be the platform and a few demo videos, as well as templates and instructions for others to follow while creating their own videos. I would iterate development with feedback to make my platform and content guides as accessible as possible. I intend to loosely model my platform off of other open-source websites such as freesound.org, which is a collaborative website for uploading and downloading royalty-free music and sound effects. Using this as a general guide I am creating a website to guide, share, and access multimedia social stories. 
# Feasibility Analysis: 
My two main criteria are to ensure that my project will have a positive impact on its intended audience as well as be able to finish within a reasonable timeline so that I can graduate.  My current project fits these criteria by limiting the amount of example content that I create, which can be adjusted to either allow for stretch goals or be cut down to having the website only as my fallback deliverable. The stretch goals include making model social stories in either video or VR formatting. The largest hurdle will be obtaining fast feedback and staying within HSR guidelines as I will need to test and iterate my web application. I will additionally need some assistance and likely funds to host the application to launch it to the general public.         I think that obtaining these goals is probable considering the progress I made in creating my MVP this semester, the resources available to me through being a student, and my plan to improve modeling over the summer. This will increase my feasibility of stretch goals to get back familiar with Unreal Engine and VR media. Additionally, my preliminary work on the MVP and experience in CS162 has given me the basic knowledge to create a web application, yet still not enough that it will be easy. I plan on consulting peers who have done similar things as well as online resources to finish it, but my considerable work on the MVP has given me confidence in my ability to complete the project.
# Completed Work Products: 
The current work I have completed is a minimum viable product of the barebones of my web applications. This does not reflect stylistic choices and the content of the templates is partially missing. However, all basic user interactions are present as are placeholders for eventual information. Additionally, I have done research on the potential pitfalls of social stories and templates by looking into The Social Express and Carol Gray’s work to begin my research on the templates needed to create a good social story. I do have social story examples already found both on the internet and created by myself this summer with the University of Minnesota (linked in Appendix A).
# References:
ACE-Ed. (2019, October 17). Marc Zimmerman, CEO of The Social Express. Equity & Access Pre K-12 | The American Consortium for Equity in Education. https://www.ace-ed.org/marc-zimmerman-ceo-of-the-social-express/
<br><br>An Introduction to Social Stories | The Arc’s Autism Now Center. (n.d.). Retrieved October 3, 2021, from https://autismnow.org/blog/an-introduction-to-social-stories/
<br><br>Ayres, K. M., & Langone, J. (2005). Intervention and instruction with video for students with autism: A review of the literature. Education and Training. In Developmental Disabilities, 183–196.
<br><br>Briody, J., & McGarry, K. (2005). Using Social Stories to Ease Children’s Transitions. Social Studies, 4.
<br><br>Delfont Mackintosh Theatres. (2018, June 25). Theatre Social Stories. https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLM8IrIiaBYrv_4BaSSPqMwIWqx0xn5v3V
<br><br>Golzari, F., Hemati Alamdarloo, G., & Moradi, S. (2015). The Effect of a Social Stories Intervention on the Social Skills of Male Students With Autism Spectrum Disorder. SAGE Open, 5(4), 2158244015621599. https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244015621599
<br><br>Gray, C. (n.d.-a). Social Story Sampler. Carol Gray - Social Stories. Retrieved October 16, 2021, from https://carolgraysocialstories.com/social-stories/social-story-sampler/
<br><br>Gray, C. (n.d.-b). The Discovery of Social Stories. Carol Gray - Social Stories. Retrieved October 16, 2021, from https://carolgraysocialstories.com/social-stories/the-discovery-of-social-stories/
<br><br>Krach, S. K., McCreery, M. P., Doss, K. M., & Highsmith, D. M. (2021). Can Computers Teach Social Skills to Children? Examining the Efficacy of “The Social Express” in an African-American Sample. Contemporary School Psychology, 25(3), 321–331. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40688-019-00270-z
<br><br>Moriarty, A. (n.d.). Radical Inclusion. Retrieved October 3, 2021, from https://www.andreamoriarty.com/books
<br><br>Once upon a social story: Advantages, writing and presenting social stories. (n.d.). MSU Extension. Retrieved October 3, 2021, from https://www.canr.msu.edu/news/once_upon_a_social_story_advantages_writing_and_presenting_social_stories
<br><br>Rao, S. M., & Gagie, B. (2006). Learning Through Seeing and Doing: Visual Supports for Children with Autism. Teaching Exceptional Children, 38(6), 26–33.
<br><br>Smith, M., Ginger, E., Wright, K., Wright, M., Taylor, J., Humm, L., Olsen, D., Bell, M., & Fleming, M. (2014). Virtual Reality Job Interview Training in Adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Journal of Autism & Developmental Disorders, 44(10), 2450–2463. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-014-2113-y
<br><br>Social Stories. (n.d.). Carol Gray - Social Stories. Retrieved October 16, 2021, from https://carolgraysocialstories.com/social-stories/
<br><br>Vance, T. (2020, December 4). Social Stories for Autism and the Harm They Can Cause. NeuroClastic. https://neuroclastic.com/social-stories-for-autism/
<br><br>Wilson, K. P. (2013). Incorporating Video Modeling Into a School-Based Intervention for Students With Autism Spectrum Disorders. Language, Speech & Hearing Services in Schools, 44(1), 105–117. https://doi.org/10.1044/0161-1461(2012/11-0098)

# Appendix A: Additional Materials For Reference
Github storage of my project: https://github.com/Corin-M/CapstoneProgress  
<br>
Video Walkthrough of current MVP: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_Mnxnh2HR0KH5oBl6FNDkKngDXaU_A1E/view  
<br>
Current best VR simulation example from my Project at the University of Minnesota: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x29ZAW54KmY&ab_channel=CorinMagee
